---
layout: default
title: The DIGIT Lab
categories:
 - home
homepage: true
---
The advancement of manufacturing techniques has significantly expanded design freedom, but this also introduces new design challenges—how can we efficiently explore the vast design space to quickly identify best solutions?

In the Design Innovation & Generative InTelligence (DIGIT) Lab, we develop advanced **AI and machine learning** methods for engineering design, targeting some of today's most challenging problems in **design ideation**, **design automation**, and **design for manufacturing**. These challenges include inverse design, design under uncertainty, and the discovery of novel solutions within large design spaces. We study how AI can augment human design capabilities by improving **efficiency**, stimulating **creativity**, and generating **new knowledge and insights**, while ensuring **generalizability** and **trustworthiness** in AI-driven design processes. Most of our research focuses on **"generative"** methods, where AI learns to generate design solutions by modeling their underlying distributions and capturing uncertainties.

For more information, you can explore our [**paper collection**](/papers/) or check out our [**open-source code**](https://www.github.com/DIGITLab23).

<center><b>Join Us!</b></center>

We have openings for **fully-funded Ph.D. positions** starting Spring/Fall 2025. If you are interested in pursuing a Ph.D. and are passionate about AI and machine learning for engineering design, please don't hesitate to email Dr. Wei Chen at [w.chen@tamu.edu](mailto:w.chen@tamu.edu). Candidates with experiences in **generative models, knowledge graphs, or uncertainty quantification** are strongly encouraged to apply. Please include your CV, transcript, and a short description (≤ 200 words) of your research interest as well as how your interest matches the DIGIT Lab. Please put "DIGIT Research Assistant Position" in the subject line.


